# MRI-GAN: A Generalized Approach to Detect DeepFakes using Perceptual Image Assessment


This readme file gives basic overview of the scrope of this project, sample results, and steps needed to replicate the work, either from scratch or using pre-trained models. Reproducing the results from-scratch is very involved process and includes training of all the models. In either case data processing needs to be done. Details are described below.



**TLDR.**
## Abstract
DeepFakes are synthetic videos generated by swapping a face of an original image with the face of somebody else. In this paper, we describe our work to develop general, deep learning-based models to classify DeepFake content. We propose a novel framework for using Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)-based models, we call MRI-GAN, that utilizes perceptual differences in images to detect synthesized videos. We test our MRI-GAN approach, and a plain-frames-based model using the DeepFake Detection Challenge Dataset. Our plain frames-based-model achieves 91% test accuracy, and a model which uses our MRI-GAN framework with Structural Similarity Index Measurement (SSIM) for the perceptual differences achieves 74% test accuracy. The results of MRI-GAN are preliminary and maybe improved further by modifying the choice of loss function, tuning hyper-parameters, or by using a more advanced perceptual similarity metric.


## MRI-GAN

MRI-GAN generates MRI of the input image. The MRI is DeepFake image contains artifacts which highlights regions of synthesisezed pixels. The MRI of non-DeepFake image is just black image.



## DeepFake Detection App

Use the model to test a given video file.

1. Download all pre-trained model weights.
1. Run the command-line App 
`python detect_deepfake_app.py --input_videofile <path to video file> --method <detection method>`. Detection method can be `plain_frames` or `MRI`



